[Music]
so I have to request you people first
and foremost thing all the sahaja
yoginis must know sahaja yoga as well as
the men know not just smiling and
dressing up is important in sahaja yoga
you must have the same knowledge as any
sahaja yogi has if you have produced
children it doesn't mean that you have
achieved something that anybody can
produce children dogs cats everyone also
your husbands are responsible partly for
it so nothing you have achieved made by
producing children looking after the
children dominating your husband all the
time how much do you know about sahaja
yoga I know some of them do not know
what are the chakras on the feet they
don't want to know anything about sahaja
yoga only they want to use sahaja yoga
sometimes to dominate transmits one has
to face it up how much do you know
deeply about sahaja most of you have so
many problems within yourselves as I
have seen some of you as soon as you put
hands towards someone you know here I'm
fetching here and that's the sign of a
regular booth in you and I have seen
people saying that they're sensitive
it's such a misleading thing I am very
sensitive I am very much higher in
sahaja yoga that's not the way you are
going to be high you have to be
absolutely perfect in perfect health and
perfect knowledge about sahaja yoga you
should how many of you have read Advent
let us see how many of you have read
full Advent alright that's good
how many English girls have read
advented honestly honestly that's good
now what I'm trying to say that you have
to find out what is sahaja yoga your
guru is a woman she is the source of all
the knowledge she is the ocean of all
the knowledge and why she relaxed behind
in all things you want to be absolutely
equal similar to men even in dressing up
and everything and what about in
knowledge about sahaja yoga how many
have give realizations to others raise
your hands
only the women I am interested in it's
good so that is what one should be proud
one should know how much you know sahaja
yoga mentally emotionally how many of
you dominate your husband be careful
she's the only honest person I think I
know all of you who dominate and try to
crush them all so sometimes I am
requesting you now because you are the
Shakti you are the power behind the man
you are the one who are going to make
them great you are the one who are going
to build up sahaja yoga as a potential
energy you are like this mother earth
who has to give everything beautiful all
these flowers from where do they come
all these trees this mother earth look
so simple but what she gives us look at
that
look at those beautiful things so
one has to understand that to be a good
sahaja yogini first of all you have to
be an excellent wife and not a
dominating wife pushing yourself forward
all the time
now the deep problem I find is the women
who are supposed to be my disciples will
be spoiling sahaja yoga very clearly I
can see it now I can see it so clearly
absolutely clearly they are going to
spoil because they have become very
dominating because they think they know
sahaja yoga because they think they have
become very great and leaders wife
thinks she is the leader herself if you
call somebody that all right come and do
this module for me the wife thinks she
has a right on her husband more than
mother has is the women who are the
culprit today and that's why I want to
one
[Music]
growl lakshmi is the woman who should
know that she has the great
responsibility of creating a very great
society of sahaja yoga she's not an
ordinary woman how we how many women
what their realization before but in
sahaja yoga I should find the ladies
we hardly find very few who are really
alert most of them are in trance
condition they don't know anything
they don't know anything they don't know
much of cooking you asked have anything
they don't know anything you talk to
them you feel as if they have taken some
sort of a drug
nothing goes into their necks sometimes
one fits it's better I do it myself
impossible
the alertness is gone because alertness
that comes through your right side is
wasted on nonsensical things
attention is wasted on nonsensical
things that's why the housewives have
lost that discretion to know that they
have to be extremely alert and sensible
and wise
[Music]
they should know each and everything
it's not so they just live in the air
somewhere hanging you know you don't
know what to say to them how to ask for
anything how to explain anything to
there was an impossible situation
so that alertness has to be there in a
housewife is an extremely important but
if you do not have the alertness then
you cannot be a girl Lakshmi you cannot
be a good mother you cannot be a good
wife
there's no slavery in it they don't know
even what pleases their husbands how to
create peace in the family what to say
when to say
beautiful things and when to restrict
all this discretion is not there either
they are shrews or their slaves
so sahaja Yoga is meant for women who
are alert who are wise who know
everything about life even they don't
know where are the chakras on the feet
look at your mother she's a woman she
knows so much they don't know anything
as to how Kundalini passes through these
centers what it does what she is capable
of but the Kundalini itself is the
feminine power
she knows each and everything about you
about her child many mothers don't know
if the child is taking drugs or is
behaving which way except for spoiling
or beating there's nothing in between
with discretion
the mothers can make these special
children a do something
that is my vision about them but with
their indiscretion they can go in these
children completely
this is
so important that our hamsa should be
alright that we should be able to create
a beautiful home a peaceful home not
only for our family but for all the
other sahaja Yogi's who come to our
house
[Music]
I have noticed of course I'm as a woman
that women have certain water powers of
crying weeping and thinking they are
very miserable and making everybody
miserable this is their power so inside
every woman there is a motherhood
there's great capacities sacrifice
everything is there with that they also
should know they're left-sided and our
joy about which we talk within our heart
has to manifest outside people should
see that we are joyous that we are happy
people that we are not like others who
start crying for small things like when
my father died I was surprised that
suddenly I became thoughtless absolutely
thoughtless for about three days I were
thoughtless neither the thought of pain
or thought of unhappiness or anything
came up but just thoughtless and
everybody was surprised because I looked
after him and I mean he was very
attached to me very fond of me
everything was there but they were
surprised how is it that we come
suddenly
thoughtless so if you are a sahaja
yogini then at the time of crisis you
should become thoughtless that's one of
the sides I have seen with myself if
there is any crisis in the family I just
become thoughtless that means what that
God just takes you in your problems he
puts his hand he puts his protection and
he takes you out of it
and makes you absolutely thoughtless and
in that thoughtless awareness you
discover what is right what is wrong so
even in crisis this thoughtless
awareness is all the time extremely
alert it becomes much more alert than
normal that's the sign of a sahaja Yogi
and a sign of sahaja yogini this is
another kind of ego expression itit is
crying business so today I want to have
a promise from all of you that you are
not going to cry at all instead of
flowers you just give me this flower of
promise I never cry of course sometimes
Sandra Khanna one tear or two tears
might come out of my after all I am a
mother but not like this sitting crying
crying becoming hysterics must have your
dignity you are all sahaja yoginis don't
read any book which talks of crying but
books which are deep also make you feel
very much - if you lie crying is alright
in the cinema they say see a woman
torturing her husband there they will
cry item they'll come and torture the
husband for sins I have seen many like
that in the Sina they will be crying
when it is somebody else they feel the
pain when it is them says they never see
what they are doing so my one demand
today is that you must not cry now you
are in the kingdom of God and in the
kingdom of God you do not try
[Music]
now this I would say for the physical
self that one has to know that you are
all younger and getting younger and
younger but not the stupidity of youth
but gravity the gravity of the age
actually I have seen children who are
born realized the very grief they won't
do anything that is not dignified and
they will never I have never heard them
talking to some of the sahaja yoginis
have a bad habit of talking tuk tuk tuk
tuk tuk tuk amalgams is a very bad habit
it shows that they're still very much
lucky just wearing saris are wearing
Mindy's you do not become assertive
first of all what is the gravity you
should only speak whenever it is
necessary
so this dignity and his understanding
comes only through science but if you
are chirping all the time talking that
the tuk tuk tuk tuk doctor
it can never never can make you deeper
person you'll be just flying in the air
we thought so for women now is best to
take to my own eyes to keep quiet
just people they all the time want to
talk is I have heard from all the
leaders that is a big problem with women
they just want talking stories telling
story but if you ask them to come and
speak they will start shaking how many
can give speeches women if you
understand that if you cannot give a
speech you better not talk also you
should be able to give a speed because
your mother is a woman she give speeches
why can't you give some speech you
cannot if you make new stallion will be
shaking I know that but if it comes to
murmuring Souls you are there so that is
one thing women have to be very careful
and as today is the guru puja I have to
tell you things not as a mother but as
your guru that if you have to ascend the
best thing is for you to stop talking ma
Nome serve artha sadhana
mon means to keep quiet is the it gives
you all kinds of facilities just keep
quiet if somebody stopping too much just
keep quiet if somebody's trying to
criticize keep quiet
that's your silence that's your right
that's your domain that you can keep
silent just watch that person if it
comes then to answer then you can answer
it but if somebody is trying to attack
you just keep silent but this silence
has to be established and one should
only establish by not talking too much I
have seen also when I am sitting here I
have seen women talking among ourselves
and this is very wrong you must learn
the silence
[Music]
seriously we must think are we
meditating are we all doing something to
elevate others also to give realizations
to others
especially women have seen don't do much
of this which is very bad because you
are the mothers you have to go all out
to give realizations to others but men
are more active that way and women are
not so it works the other way down now
on one side the men are I think are
active but don't meditate you women
meditate and men do the outside work
sort of way what time or you can call it
a good labor division that you meditate
at work and we'll go all out he's not
going to work out so one has to meditate
and one has to also go out to spread
sahaja yoga both things have to be done
supposing now you meditate and you don't
spread sort of you will never ascend
because after all this Kundalini is he
she's a sensible woman she's very
sensible
she thinks why should I make her a saint
what is the use sahaja Yoga is not
individualistic it's not for one person
to be no saint and sit somewhere it's
not like that it's not meant for one
person for oneself it's not
individualistic
it's a collective happening I must say
that somehow men have been more dynamic
have working it out the women in sahaja
yoga are not yet coming up to that level
as they should they have to be more
sensible about it and they have to work
they can do it but only trouble is I
think they have certain minor problems
what which they're very always I get
letters from ladies saying this is wrong
that is wrong
complaining all the time when I am so
fed up of their letters now that I think
there are useless to read they're also
so I have to tell you all that it is
important that men because they are
dynamic women should be much more
because they are Shakti and I know I
find that the men are more sort of
active and dynamic about sahaja yoga and
I don't know what is the reason why
women are not they can transform so many
they can do so much good to us they can
bring so much love and compassion
because these love and compassion is the
quality of a mother of a woman and if
the women don't have that quality it's
useless to be a woman all the time
if you are busy about your useless
things like fashions or phases and all
that at the time is all wasted you have
a short time now got your realization
and you must decide what have you done
so far what have you achieved for so far
[Music]
can i guide myself have I got the light
of the Spirit on my attention so well
established and manifested that I can
guide myself and guide others later on
first of all and the Guru principle it
is important that you see to yourself
the introspection can I be my own goal
have I become my own rules now in your
face your guru is a mother a woman so it
has to be among women that the
development of their guru qualities have
to be very very manifested but it's just
the way it is not for them they are
still the mothers or their the wives or
their sahaja yoginis but they don't
realize that you are also the gurus
because your mother is a guru because
she is a woman and you have to be also
of that quality that people should say
look at this woman she's such a girl but
still as I hear from the different
leaders that the ladies are absolutely
still very much far away and are very
few who can be called as real sahaja
yoginis it's a sad thing to hear because
if you still keep to all these mundane
things of womanhood and the drawbacks of
womanhood which has come out of
domination maybe because of always they
were shown to be something door
especially in the Christian religion
they were never regarded as
something Ori they have this kind of a
difference in them that they don't
understand that Dharma can be
established more by women than by men
and the Guru's work is to establish the
Dharma in the society in the family in
relationships all these gurus which are
representing all these made symbols here
have done nothing but have established
them but first of all before
establishing the Dharma we should watch
ourselves have you got Dharma within
ourselves or not first of all the
quality of a person who has Dharma is
that he listens to others he obeys and
this is something has gone wrong with
the Western women I think that they're
forgotten how to listen to others how to
obey us that's why their children also
don't over
[Music]
it just should become innate such you
don't have to work it out but should
know now I'm a sahaja yogini every
morning you should tell yourself I'm a
sahaja yogini so how far I should go how
should I be I should behave what should
be my attitude all this can be very
easily understood if you develop this
Lotus of wisdom how does the Lotus come
up there is a seat it sprouts that's
south of wisdom that is already the seed
within you all of you have gone and now
it has started opening because you are
realized souls allow here is wisdom to
take off so how do you do it this one
way I'm saying
supposing mother had this problem what
she would have done very good I did
how she would have dealt with it you may
even say that I don't we don't
understand mother science is full of
tricks correct I am but there's a very
simple way of doing it
here I surrender it to my wisdom and the
wisdom itself that is in you is active
it will work this point also we should
understand then this Lotus of your
fragrance with him and then activity of
your wisdom will be that you will take
all that is very good easily you'll get
all that is very satisfying very joyous
it's kind of an activity of this wisdom
within you which just leads you to
people who are extremely nice to
situations which are very beautiful when
you discover nice things
or to such beautiful creations that you
would never expect to see it's very very
important to understand that to tell me
mother this miracle happened that
miracle happened it's nothing it's your
own wisdom your own spirit is working it
out you don't have to do anything only
thing you have to remember that you have
a sahaja yogini and your character
should be that of a sahaja yogini that
your ideas should be that of a sahaja
yogini
[Music]
and I have to specially make a very
important request to the women that in
these modern times they are the ones who
are going to save the world not the men
they have done their job before no it is
for you to say with your understanding
with your compassion with your
sacrifices with your wisdom and the
innate love not only your children your
husband your family but the whole world
it's a very good opportunity for all of
you to do your bit it's helping of
tremendous experience with some of the
very great sahaja yoginis we have some
of them have achieved really as you can
say the constant state of bliss really
some of them have in the constant state
of bliss even if they are coming
immediately I can feel their come the
whole atmosphere waits for them the
whole cosmos just in complete respectful
attendance is waiting for their arrival
there are women of that quality and we
have to take them as ideals and not the
stupid useless vain women we have to
take them as something great this is
what I have to tell you that the
potential within you is very good sahaja
yoga should not be limited to you or to
your children but the ladies of sahaja
yoga have to work it out they have to
see that they give that power to their
men if I find any husband weak I know
it's the wife who is a nagger
or who is a dominating person
of who things to endure herself and if I
see a man so powerful I know there's a
woman behind him it's just like
electricity and a light and the lamp if
the electricity is flowing all right the
lamp is burned
absolutely that but if you are
identified with a stupid vain women then
you are lost you be finished if you know
what I am if you know what I am saying
and if you try to follow what you have
to do then you will immediately see that
mother is trying to strengthen our roots
because you are the roots of the trees
you have to give all the nourishment you
have to be motherly sisterly towards all
the other sahaja Yogi's not to quarrel
to fight to say hard things that's not
the job of a woman not to argue but
be quiet and watch out even if they are
catching on certain chakras you can
cleanse them very well as wives you can
work it out secretly you can do it
because the problem though it looks so
dangerous and so destructive and
shocking the keys are in the hands of
the women of today they can just solve
the problem like that if they decide and
understand their glory and their value
and do not make themselves cheap
hankering after cheap popularity if I
have been able to nail down this great
problem to a very precise source of it
and if you can manage the source I'm
sure we can manage sahaja yoga we can
manage the whole world and the humanity
at large is going to be absolutely saved
as that is your desire may God bless
[Music]
you